---
description: >-
  Topic: The article outlines key aspects of compliance such as when to consider
  compliance, the audit process, trust principles, and reasons to pursue it.
  Especially relevant to SaaS providers.
---

# 1.1 - Strategic Policy Development

### Reading:

[The Ultimate Guide to SOC 2 Compliance](https://www.vendr.com/blog/soc-2-compliance-guide)

### Prompts:

1. How would you convince your future company to pursue SOC2 compliance?
   * I would inform them that SOC 2 compliance is a strategic investment in security, credibility, and privacy. It provides a framework for conforming to many different regulatory bodies, and thus, saves money over retrofitting existing programs to comply by reduced man-hours and lowered risk of legal disputes.
2. What are the five SOC2 Trust Principles?
   * The five SOC 2 Trust Principles are:&#x20;
     * Security
     * Confidentiality
     * Availability
     * Integrity
     * Privacy
3. How would your explain the three levels of the SOC2 pyramid in an analogy your friends or former colleagues would understand?
   1. **Base Level (Level 1) - Policies and Procedures:**
      * Level 1 of the SOC 2 pyramid is akin to establishing ethical principles and foundational beliefs. It's the groundwork, where you define your moral compass and guiding philosophies.
   2. **Middle Level (Level 2) - Day-to-Day Operations:**
      * Transitioning to Level 2 is like embodying your philosophical principles in your everyday life. It involves living by the established values and principles, making ethical decisions, and ensuring that your philosophical stance is reflected in your daily life.
   3. **Top Level (Level 3) - Continuous Improvement and Scalability:**
      * The summit of the pyramid aligns with growth and evolution. It represents a commitment to not only practicing your principles but also adapting and refining them. Continuous introspection, learning, and scaling your outlook to encompass new experiences or perspectives.

#### _Additional Sources_

\| [Security Audits - CompTIA Security+ SY0-401: 2.3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FrzpyLZYKxo\&ab\_channel=ProfessorMesser) |

### Things I want to know more about:

I would like to know more about SOC 2 Trust Principles and how they reflect social and cultural influences. Likewise, how they in return shape techno-culture.
