---
description: 'Topic:'
---

# 4.2 - Cloud Network Security

### Reading:

[IBM Cloud Learn Hub - What is a Virtual Private Cloud?](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/vpc)

### Prompts:

1. What are some of the key features of the VPC model?
   * **Agility:** Allows scaling of resources to meet business needs.
   * **Availability:** Redundancy and fault-tolerant architectures for HA (high availability).
   * **Security:** Granular control over resource access.
   * **Affordability:** Combines advantages of private clouds with cost-effectiveness of public clouds.
2. What are the three tiers that comprise the three-tier architecture model?
   * **Web/Presentation Tier:** Requests from web browsers and presents information to end users.
   * **Application Tier:** Houses the business logic.
   * **Database Tier:** Database servers that store data processed in the application tier.
3. Describe the differences between a VPC and a VPN to someone you know from your previous job.
   * **A Virtual Private Cloud (VPC):** Cloud service that provides isolation within shared public cloud infrastructure, allows establishing private environments.
   * **A Virtual Private Network (VPN):** A secure connection over the public internet. It's commonly used for secure remote access or connecting different locations.&#x20;
   * While a VPC provides a private cloud-like environment within a public cloud infrastructure,  VPNs are a secure communication channel that can be established over the internet to connect various networks or locations securely.

#### _Additional Sources_

### Things I want to know more about:

How to create VPN/reverse proxy/VPC systems to maximize security
