## Prep: The Growth Mindset

### Question: If there are no questions provided, summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience.
There have been a few times in my life where I was given either incomplete, or absurd assignment instructions. When I was an Airmen, about 20 years ago, I approached my instructor about some instructions that made no sense to me. Of course I was nervous as I rarely ask questions, always assuming there was a good reason for my confusion. What he said stuck with me: “In the Air Force, we want our Airmen asking why. Our sister services want you to just complete the assignment without question, but here questions play an important role. We ask questions, because if not we will end up doing tasks that make no sense.” He then told me a story about him as a young Airman. According to the story, he accidentally spilled some pain on the flightline, and afraid of the repercussions, he made the spilled paint into a circle, hoping nobody would question it. 15 years later he came back to the base, and saw that the paint was still there - not only that, but it had been recoated many times over. He asked about it, and found out that nobody had thought to question the paint, and thus it kept being redone. 

## Things I want to know more about
What was the goal of this assignment? The instructions do not seem to match the intent, nor the structure of the assigned task. It is obviously a ‘cut/paste’ job from the standard reading assignment. When an assignment is so lazily put together (and nonsense) should I A) overthink it, and try to make it fit? Or B) answer with the least amount of effort. I chose B… kinda, as obviously I did tell the story from my past.
One non-lazy question I have is: What is up with the bias assessment? According to it, I am obviously biased against certain groups, and need to work on opening up dialog. However, I don’t think that is a good answer. I know white supremacists/transphobics/racists/flat earthers are people, but I don’t see how trying to befriend them/platform them is better? Please explain why it's so important that I hear these people out? 
