---
description: 'Topic:'
---

# 3.3 - Reconstructing a Cloud Attack Using Log Data

### Reading:

[What is a reverse proxy?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/glossary/reverse-proxy/)

### Prompts:

1. What are the benefits of a forward proxy?
   * **Bypassing Restrictions:** Forward proxies bypass browsing restrictions. Users can connect to the proxy instead of directly to restricted sites, allowing access to a broader range of content.
   * **Content Filtering:** Forward proxies block specific content. Organizations, can use proxies to implement content filtering rules, preventing users from accessing certain websites.
   * **Anonymity:** Forward proxies provide increased online anonymity.
2. Explain the differences between a forward and a reverse proxy?\\
   1. **Forward Proxy:**
      * Sits in front of client machines.
      * Acts as an intermediary between clients and the web servers.
      * Communicates with web servers on behalf of clients.
      * Bypasses restrictions, enforces content filtering, and enhances user anonymity.
   2. **Reverse Proxy:**
      * Sits in front of one or more web servers.
      * Intercepts requests from clients and communicates with the origin servers.
      * Intercepts requests from clients and communicates with origin servers.
      * Provides load balancing, protects against attacks, performs global server load balancing (GSLB), caches content, and handles SSL encryption.
3. Explain to your manager why your organization might benefit from implementing a reverse proxy?
   * Implementing a reverse proxy would enhance web performance through load balancing, protect against attacks by concealing origin server IP addresses, and optimize user experience with server distribution.

#### _Additional Sources_

\| [A Conversation About REST API](https://gist.github.com/brookr/5977550) | [Operationalize Ransomware Detections Quickly and Easily with Splunk](https://www.splunk.com/en\_us/blog/industries/operationalize-ransomware-detections-quickly-and-easily-with-splunk.html) | Link 3 | Link 4 | Link 5 |

### Things I want to know more about:

* As a user of Cloudflare, I would love to do an in-depth deepdive into the services they provide and how to utilize them.
