---
description: >-
  Topic: (NIDS) can be an integral part of an organization’s security, but they
  are just one aspect of many in a cohesive and safe system.
---

# 3.4 - Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems (IDS/IPS)

### Reading:

[The Pros and Cons of Network Intrusion Detection Systems](https://blog.rapid7.com/2017/01/11/the-pros-cons-of-intrusion-detection-systems/)

### Prompts:

1. List 2 differences between firewalls and an IDS?
   1. **Functionality:**
      * Firewalls primarily focus on preventing unauthorized access and blocking malicious traffic based on predefined rules.
      * IDS (Intrusion Detection Systems) identify and raise alerts about incidents or potential threats within the network but do not block them.
   2. **Action on Detected Threats:**
      * Firewalls can actively block or allow traffic based on predefined rules, acting as a barrier between networks.
      * IDS, on the other hand, passively monitors and alerts, requiring human intervention for further investigation and response to threats.
2. Under what circumstances would you choose a network-based IDS over a host-based IDS?
   1. Network-based sensors can detect and report incidents faster than host-based sensors.
   2. Ease of implementation is a priority, as it doesn't require software management on individual hosts.
3. Name 3 major drawbacks of a NIDS?
   1. **False Positives:** NIDS often generates false positives.
   2. **Inability to Process Encrypted Packets:** NIDS cannot inspect the content of encrypted packets.
   3. **Susceptibility to Protocol-based Attacks: I**s susceptible to crashes and vulnerabilities from protocol-based attacks.

#### _Additional Sources_

\| [Network Intrusion Detection and Prevention - CompTIA Security+ SY0-501 - 2.1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hEgWPWIuq\_s\&ab\_channel=ProfessorMesser) | Link 2 | Link 3 | Link 4 | Link 5 |

### Things I want to know more about:

* I would love to explore the different types of IDS more thoroughly.
