---
description: >-
  Topic: Applying CIA Triad - Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability. Methods:
  Encryption, Authentication, Hash Functions, and High Availability.
---

# 2.1 - Data File Encryption and Hashing

### Reading:

[Applying The CIA Triad To Your Enterprise File Transfer](https://www.jscape.com/blog/implementing-the-cia-triad-when-transferring-files-through-the-internet)

[What Are MD5, SHA-1, and SHA-256 Hashes, and How Do I Check Them?](https://www.howtogeek.com/67241/htg-explains-what-are-md5-sha-1-hashes-and-how-do-i-check-them/)

### Prompts:

1. You have been made responsible for the company’s file server. How would you preserve the three elements of the CIA triad?
   1. **Confidentiality** - Encrypt everything
   2. **Integrity:** I would use an appropriate hashing technique, probably SHA-256, as it is preferred
   3. **Availability:** To ensure the highest levels of availability, I would utilize the 3-2-1 storage solution. 3 copies, 2 different local data stores (computer and local server), 1 off-site (central server).
2. Explain how hashing verifies data integrity using non-technical terms.
   * Hashes are algorithmic keys for your data. In this case, you can verify data integrity for the data by comparing the key pinout to the key you have. If they match, the file hasn't been tampered with, if they are different, then you can no longer verify the integrity, and thus cannot be sure the file isn't untampered.&#x20;
3. How is hashing and encryption different?
   * **Hashing:** The primary purpose of hashing is to create a fixed-size and unique representation (hash value) of input data.
   * **Encryption:** Converting data into a different format using an algorithm and a key. This key can be broken.

#### _Additional Sources_

\| Link 1 | Link 2 | Link 3 | Link 4 | Link 5 |

### Things I want to know more about:

I would like to know more about hashes' ingrained collision vulnerability, when two different inputs produce the same hash value.
