---
description: >-
  Topic: Public Key Infrastructure (PKI), a tech for secure digital
  authentication. Discussing public & private keys, Certificate Authorities
  (CA), X.509 standard, web security, SSH, & email encryption.
---

# 2.4 -  Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)

### Reading:

[What is Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)](https://www.ssh.com/pki/)

### Prompts:

1. Name the three main components which make up PKI.
   * **Public Key:** A key used for verification and encryption.
   * **Private Key:** A secret key held only by the user or device for signing and decryption.
   * **Certificate Authority (CA):** A trusted entity that verifies the association between public keys and devices issuing digital certificates.
2. How would you explain, to a non-technical friend, the role PKI plays in protecting traffic between your browser and a web server.
   * When you connect to a website, PKI ensures a secure conversation. Your browser and the website use special keys: a public key (known to everyone) and a private key (known only to the website). The website gets a certificate from a trusted authority. When your browser sees this certificate, it knows it's safe to share sensitive information
3. What is the main weakness of the PKI architecture?
   * **fraudulent certificates:** which can be exploited for activities like espionage, injecting malware, or forging messages.

#### _Additional Sources_

\| [Prof Messer Security+ PKI Components](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3yuad7\_bszE) |

### Things I want to know more about:

While I am familiar with CAs, and have made some myself, I would like to deep dive in how public and private keys function, and the specifics of the certificate issuance process.
